BigQuery Stream doc update (#1111)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/destinations/streaming-destinations/bigquery-stream.mdx

Find the open source transformer code for this destination in the <a href="https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/tree/master/src/v0/destinations/bqstream">GitHub repository</a>.

## Getting started

<div class="warningBlock">
Before you set up BigQuery Stream as a destination in the <a href="https://app.rudderstack.com/">RudderStack dashboard</a>, make sure you <Link to="#creating-a-service-account">create a service account</Link> in your Google Cloud Console with the <strong>BigQuery Data Editor</strong> role to have the required access to write to BigQuery.
</div>

RudderStack supports sending event data to BigQuery Stream via the following <a href="https://rudderstack.com/docs/rudderstack-cloud/rudderstack-connection-modes/">connection modes</a>:

| Connection Mode | Web       | Mobile    | Server   |
| :------------------ | :------------ | :------------ | :------------ |
| **Device mode**     | -             | -             | -             |
| **Cloud mode**      | **Supported** | **Supported** | **Supported** |

> Once you've confirmed that the source platform supports sending events to BigQuery Stream, follow these steps:

Author: ```suggestion
Once you have confirmed that the source platform supports sending events to BigQuery Stream, follow these steps:
```

| **Cloud mode**      | **Supported** | **Supported** | **Supported** |

Once you've confirmed that the source platform supports sending events to BigQuery Stream, follow these steps:

1. From your [RudderStack dashboard](https://app.rudderstack.com/), add the source. Then, from the list of destinations, select **BigQuery Stream**.
2. Assign a name to the destination and click **Continue**.

## Connection settings

To successfully configure BigQuery Stream as a destination, you will need to configure the following settings:

- **Project ID**: Enter your BigQuery project ID.
- **Dataset ID**: This is the ID of the project dataset for which you specified the **Project ID** above.
- **Table ID**: Provide the ID of the table into which you want to stream the event data.

<img src="../../assets/event-stream-destinations/bqstream-3.png" alt="BigQuery Stream connection settings" />

- **Insert ID**: This is an **optional** field. Enter the insert ID used by Google to deduplicate the data sent to BigQuery. For more information on this setting, refer to the <Link to="#deduplicating-data">Deduplicating data</Link> section.

> - **Credentials**: Enter the contents of the credentials JSON you downloaded after <Link to="#creating-a-service-account">creating your service account</Link>.

Author: Actually, there's a lot more information in the JSON file than just the private key; all the contents must be pasted in this field as is. So the original sentence should be retained.

<div class="infoBlock">

> Create a service account in your GCP Project for RudderStack with the <strong>BigQuery Data Editor</strong> role, which has the required access to write to BigQuery.

Reviewer: Bit confused if it is the same as "Creating a service account" section below or different

Author: It's the same - good catch, will cross-reference the section here as well.

</div>

## Sending events to BigQuery Stream

> RudderStack supports sending only <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/track">`track`</Link> events to BigQuery Stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RudderStack supports sending only <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/track">`track`</Link> events to BigQuery Stream. The `track` event payload format should match the table schema specified in the RudderStack dashboard.
```

> table schema specified in the RudderStack dashboard..

not sure where is this in the dashboard

Author: we specify the ID of the table - I'll tweak the sentence to have no scope for confusion.

> - Make sure the `track` event payload format matches the table schema specified in the RudderStack dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - RudderStack currently does not support the `templateSupportSuffix` feature which creates a table schema during a streaming insert action.

Author: Yes - it was originally a callout anyway - I tweaked it more along the lines of "Also note that..." followed by the bullets. But your suggestion makes sense.

---
title: "BigQuery Stream"
description: Send your event data from RudderStack to BigQuery via Google's streaming API.
---

[Google BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery) lets you stream your event data using its [streaming API](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/samples/bigquery-table-insert-rows). With this API, you can insert data into BigQuery in near real-time and have it ready for analysis in no time.

Find the open source transformer code for this destination in the <a href="https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/tree/master/src/v0/destinations/bqstream">GitHub repository</a>.

> ## Creating a service account

Reviewer 2: Are we not placing the details of the integration at the top any longer (`#Getting started` section where it displays all the modes)

Author: @akashrpo it's there below the service account section. I thought of moving the section at the top as it's a prerequisite, before the user starts configuring the destination.

Author: You can check the [preview](https://rudderstack-docs-git-bqstream-doc-updates-rudder-stack.vercel.app/destinations/streaming-destinations/bigquery-stream/#getting-started)

Reviewer 2: IMO the landing page seems to be more aligned towards configuration than getting to know about the integration in short

Author: @akashrpo Do you think the following structure is more helpful, then?

- Getting Started (with a note highlighting that the user needs to set up a service account first, with a link to the section)
- Connection settings
- Sending events
- Deduplicating data
- Dynamically configuring `insertId`
- Creating service account
- Troubleshooting

Reviewer 2: Looks good

Author: Thanks - I've incorporated this structure.

2. Assign a name to the destination and click **Continue**.

## Connection settings

To successfully configure BigQuery Stream as a destination, you will need to configure the following settings:

- **Project ID**: Enter your BigQuery project ID.
- **Dataset ID**: This is the ID of the project dataset for which you specified the **Project ID** above.
- **Table ID**: Provide the ID of the table into which you want to stream the event data.

<img src="../../assets/event-stream-destinations/bqstream-3.png" alt="BigQuery Stream connection settings" />

- **Insert ID**: This is an **optional** field. Enter the insert ID used by Google to deduplicate the data sent to BigQuery. For more information on this setting, refer to the <Link to="#deduplicating-data">Deduplicating data</Link> section.
- **Credentials**: Enter the contents of the credentials JSON you downloaded after <Link to="#creating-a-service-account">creating your service account</Link>.

<div class="infoBlock">
Create a service account in your GCP Project for RudderStack with the <strong>BigQuery Data Editor</strong> role, which has the required access to write to BigQuery.
</div>

## Sending events to BigQuery Stream

> RudderStack supports sending only <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/track">`track`</Link> events to BigQuery Stream. Also, it currently **does not support** batching these events.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RudderStack supports sending only <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/track">`track`</Link> events to BigQuery Stream.
```
We can remove this statement as we support batching now

Author: Done.

}
```

> In the above case, deduplication **will not be applicable** as the event properties do not contain `<some_value>` present in the payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above case, deduplication **is not applicable** as the event properties do not contain `<some_value>` present in the payload.
```
